In order to run JMS, there are a few requirements that must be met. 

# 1. A relatively recent, relatively powerful computer
You need a relatively powerful computer to run JMS. A relatively recent i5, i7, Xeon, Ryzen 5, Ryzen 7, Threadripper, or Epyc machine should suffice in most cases. In all cases, it's recommended to test JMS *prior* to your event to make sure your machine can handle it. If you're using Grapple's JMS-in-a-box solution, this is taken care of for you. It's also recommended to use a _new_ machine, as you don't want to be relying on old hardware for such a mission-critical component.

The computer you choose must support virtualisation (Intel VT, AMD-V). It's also recommended to use a high-speed SSD for your boot device. 

# 2. Dual network interfaces
The computer you choose must have dual gigabit network interfaces (one for internet/WAN, one for the field network). In some cases, this may include a motherboard with two network interfaces, or an additional PCIe network adapter.

*Note: It is possible to run JMS with only one ethernet interface, but it substantially complicates the setup and hence isn't explored in this guide*

### Beware of USB Ethernet adapters
USB Ethernet adapters can be unreliable, especially when ran for long periods of time. If you choose to use a USB ethernet adapter, ensure it is thoroughly tested.

# 3. A Separate Laptop
The JMS server runs headless, that is, without a UI. In order to get a UI session into the JMS server, you must use a separate machine (usually a laptop) to access the hypervisor's web UI in addition to the JMS UI.