# 1. Install Rust via Rustup
Step 1 is to install Rust, which can be done by following the instructions at https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install

*Note: you'll need to install `curl` first, which can be done with `sudo apt update && sudo apt install -y curl`*

# 2. Install Node.JS
Download the 18.16.1 LTS release of Node.JS from https://nodejs.org/en/download (Linux 64-bit) and save it to your desktop. Then run the following command:

```
 sudo tar -xvf ~/Desktop/node-v18.16.1-linux-x64.tar.xz -C /opt
```

Next, open `/etc/environment` in an editor (as sudo), and add the following entries
```
PATH="<whatever was already there>:/opt/node-v18.16.1-linux-x64/bin"
NODEJS_HOME=/opt/node-v18.16.1-linux-x64
```

Once complete, reboot your JMS VM for the changes to take effect.

# 3. Install Yarn
Run the following command:
```
npm install -g yarn
```

# 4. Clone JMS

There are two ways to clone JMS - HTTPS and SSH. If you just want to run JMS, HTTPS is the way to go. If you're planning on making contributions to JMS, SSH is where you want to be.

## 4a. Cloning over HTTPS
In your home directory (`cd ~/`), run the following commands to clone JMS:
```
sudo apt install -g git
git clone https://github.com/JaciBrunning/JMS.git
cd JMS
```

## 4b. Cloning over SSH
In your home directory (`cd ~/`), run the following command to setup your SSH key:
```
ssh-keygen -t rsa
cat ~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub
```

Copy the resulting SSH key and add it to your GitHub profile (User Icon > Settings > SSH and GPG Keys > New SSH Key)

Next, run the following commands:
```
sudo apt install -g git
git clone git@github.com:JaciBrunning/JMS.git
cd JMS
```

# 5. Build the frontend
Before we build JMS proper, we need to build the frontend. 
```
sudo apt install build-essential

cd jms-frontend
yarn install
yarn build
```

# 6. Build JMS
Back in the main JMS directory, run:
```
sudo apt install -g pkg-config libssl-dev libncurses-dev libdbus-1-dev

cargo build --release
```

This may take a while.

If everything builds correctly, you're good to move on.

# 7. Link JMS to be available system-wide
```
sudo ln -s ~/JMS/target/release/jms /usr/bin
sudo ln -s ~/JMS/target/release/jms-radio-config /usr/bin
```

Now, when you want to run JMS you can do `sudo jms` from anywhere. 

*If you're wanting to use JMS in development mode, you can do `cargo build && sudo target/debug/jms` for the backend, and `cd jms-frontend && yarn start` for the frontend*

